All data cleaning and the understanding of each variable is based on the 2024 Kaggle Stack Overflow Survey, with the ultimate goal of increasing data readability to aid subsequent analysis and understanding. The entire survey is divided into six main parts: Basic Information, Education + Work + Career, Tech and Tech Culture, Stack Community, Artificial Intelligence, and TeamsBranch. I believe that the Stack Community and Artificial Intelligence sections are irrelevant to our analysis, so I dropped all the columns related to these two parts.

Now, going back to the first part, the main cleaning was applied to the "Employment" feature. This question includes many types of employment status. Due to space limitations, please refer to the ipynb file for a better understanding. I believe that full-time employees generally have higher salaries compared to other types of employment statuses. Therefore, with the help of ChatGPT, I assigned a score to each employment type and then summed each observation to obtain a final employment score.

In Part 2, I applied the same idea to the columns "learning to code" and "learning to code online." I believe that the more someone learns, the higher their salary. The most significant change in this part is the classification of countries. The World Bank classifies all countries into Low-Income Economies, Lower Middle-Income Economies, Upper Middle-Income Economies, and High-Income Economies. Based on this classification, I created four lists and matched them with the data.

In Part 3, I only selected respondents who indicated the tools they worked with, as I believe that the more work-related software/skills they use, the higher their salary.

Part 6 can be divided into three sections: Knowledge Questions, Time Efficiency Questions, and Job Satisfaction Questions. In the Knowledge section, I used ChatGPT’s suggestions to assign scores to each question, both positive and negative, and summed them to get the final score. The Time section followed the same approach as the Knowledge section. For Job Satisfaction, I summed all the columns to obtain the final JobSatScore column.

Finally, I standardized the OrgSize variable because its variance was too large, which improved model performance and comparability. It prevented features with larger ranges (e.g., 10000) from dominating algorithms like regression. I also removed eight columns that possibly contained outliers for better statistical inference, as outliers severely impact the mean, variance, and can invalidate assumptions for T-tests and ANOVA's normality, homoscedasticity, and linearity. A total of 2371 outliers were removed.

